I"≠<p>One of the peculiar facts about Man is that he considers himself to be a distinct entity from the Natural World that he inhabits. To Man, the Universe is a vast thing to explore, manipulate, utilize, and learn from. Such tasks are accomplished, as has been discussed previously, by the Observation of Natural Order and the inference of the Laws of Nature via the faculty of Reason. Man‚Äôs ability to set himself apart from the workings of the Universe, at least in his mind, allows himself to consider the meaning of such Observations with respect to the Laws of Nature. He is able to remove himself as an agent of ‚Äúmechanism‚Äù in whatever phenomenon he observes, save perhaps, the case when he is acting as the causal initiator of an experiment. He has no bearing on the mechanism of The Law of Gravitation acting on an apple in that he is not physical reason why the apple falls to the Earth; he merely let go of the apple, and it falls according to the Laws of Nature. Man, ever curious, is a scientist, even if he has no formal training in the sciences.</p>

<p>The tendency for Man regard phenomena as external to himself is a great philosophical advancement that has allowed him to make monumental leaps and bounds in all disciplines of thought. The danger in this tendency is when he turns the microscope on himself to observe his own behavior. It is a great and ever more popular fallacy of man to believe that the Laws which govern man‚Äôs behavior are constructed as a result of external factors only, and that the right manipulation of these factors could give rise a human being of any kind. The more Man sees himself as a sovereign individual observer of the Created Order, and not as part of that Created Order himself, the greater his tendency will be to believe that no Law exists which governs the way which he ought to be. This may manifest itself in two ways: 1) man will envision himself as the great arbitrator of his own glorious and limitless reality, with no Law to restrict his insatiable lusts, or 2) man will blame the external factors of his life for his behavior, as if he were a socially and evolutionarily conditioned lump of Play-Doh with no Law to govern his actions. Lawless Man is a brutal and poorly informed agent of fate, or he is perpetually a victim of the whims of ‚Äúother‚Äù, or he holds both prepositions in his head at once with white knuckles.</p>

<p>We know from Observation and Reason that all things within Nature have a Law, and that they have a Law because their creation by God transacted a Law to them. God created the World by means of Reason, and therefore the World acts in ways that can be comprehended by Reason. There is no evidence that Man is any different. Man is an aspect of Creation, and therefore his being and his actions are governed by Law, from the most basic physiology to the highest workings of his conscious mind. It might surprise the reader to hear that the mind of man which is typically assumed to be Free is also governed by Law; how can a free thing be constrained to act in a certain way? We reconcile this tension by saying that acting in accordance with a Law is to act in accordance with what is prescribed to be harmonious with its natural function. To say that an apple is <em>governed</em> by the Law of Gravitation means that it <em>ought</em> to fall to the Earth when it is dropped, is analogous to saying that the Law of Man <em>governs</em> the Free and Reasoning mind of man by prescribing the way that it <em>ought</em> to behave. In the same way, the mind of Man is governed by the Law of Man, in that it <em>should not</em> will to commit murder, or to indulge itself in pornography, or to commit other deviant ad destructive acts. The Law of Man governs the mind to instead be peaceful, forgiving, chaste, diligent, and righteous.</p>

<p>The Law of Man, also known as Moral Law, or simply as Morality, is thus not a complete constraint on the mind of man that guides its every action. Within the scope of the Law, there is freedom to act in a multitude of ways. While the human race has devised a great number of violent and clever ways to commit murder, there are a great deal more ways to abstain from murder entirely. It is not as if the Moral Law, in governing the mind, ‚ÄúThou shalt not murder,‚Äù constrains a Lawful being to only one path forward in any situation, and certainly the constraint is not so severe as to abdicate Reason. Lawful minds need not turn off their ability to think.</p>

<p>Yet even the freedom given to act, create, and live within the parameters of the Moral Law is too little for the mind of man to be content with. Thus, as a great peculiarity in the Universe, Man exercises his will to transgress the Moral Law, not behaving as he ought to. Man relegates his mind to violent acts of murder, slander, selfishness, and depraved fantasy. He willingly submits his body to all kinds of addiction, sexual deviance, and uselessness. Man‚Äôs transgression against the Law of Man reaches down to the very core of his being: no fiber of his body and no stirring of his consciousness can escape the slavery of Lawlessness that he has willingly subjected himself to. The mind of Man is eternally relegated to disharmony with his own nature, with others around him, and with the rest of the Universe.</p>

<p>Some may reject this narrative in favor of affirming a different explanation of the nature of man. What I have called transgressions of the Law of Man, others may describe as the natural behavior of man. ‚ÄúThe way that man acts is just the way that he is; the Law of Man prescribes him to be selfish, violent, and deviant‚Äù. There are a few problems with this view. Man, the great Observer, is also able to Observe the inner workings of his own mind, especially when it cries out in offense at the moral violations it incurs. Very few men are so wicked as to have their conscience completely desensitized to immorality; even hardened criminals take moral stances against harm being brought against children, for example. As long as the conscience remains intact, it remains an Observable indicator of moral transgression. When a person says, ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt feel right about doing this‚Äù, they are speaking on behalf of conscience, and not a mere social platitude. It is much easier to forget to say ‚Äúplease and thank you‚Äù than it is to ignore the weight of a guilty conscience.</p>

<p>There is a deeper and more foundational reason that selfishness, violence, and deviance cannot be the natural and harmonious modality of man‚Äôs behavior: no one would deny that murder, or rape, or sexual deviance, or pride, or envy promote anything harmonious in the life of anyone. Nature is ordered. It works in harmony, with each component acting according to the Laws of Nature, to the end that its action compliments the actions of other components, who act according to their own Laws. A transgression of the Moral Law, as I have described it, is a transgression against another person; it is the infliction of pain and brokenness on another human being. Reason does not permit us to conclude that pain and brokenness are evidence that things are the way they ought to be. Universally, it would be better if unnecessary physical and psychological pain did not exist. By our actions, we perpetrate the existence of things which we conclude ought not to exist, and it follows that we must act in some other way. Deny this conclusion, and you deny any moral comfort in the midst of pain and brokenness. You should not feel any duty to comfort the widow, nor give to the poor, nor to stand for justice, and if you do any of these things you not say that you do them for any moral reason. Moral nihilism consigns man to</p>

<p>Reason forbids us from abandoning the Moral Law.</p>

<p>Thus, Man has a Law and is a transgressor of that Law. This is exactly what is meant when the Bible says that all men have sinned, and have fallen short. Sin is a ‚Äúmissing of the mark‚Äù; a failure to live in harmony with ourselves, with others, and with the God who created all things.</p>
:ET