I"<p><em>Please bear with some mathematical jargon. I actually have a blog <a href="someappliedtheoretics.com">here</a> where I just talk about math, physics, computer science, and other related things, and I understand that this is not that place. Trust me, I am going somewhere with this.</em> A system is said to “bifurcate” when its parameters are changed continuously, but its behavior jumps discontinuously. The word “bifurcate” stems from some of the seminal investigations in a field which came to be known as Chaos Theory. Mathematicians who were studying single-parameter iterative nonlinear maps noticed that as the system parameter increased beyond a certain value called a “bifurcation point” the function forked (“<em>bi</em>-furcated”) into two fixed points, and upon reaching another bifurcation point, four fixed points, and then eight, and then sixteen, and so on. Each successive bifurcation point was reached exponentially more quickly than the last, until the fixed points blended into an set which was so topologically mixed that the behavior of the system was indeterminate from inspection. That is what chaos is: determinism of future states from present states, but no determinism of approximate future states from approximate present states; uncertainty which does not arise from randomness.</p>

<p>A society may only be so Godless before it falls apart. The Bible guarantees this in the book of Romans, chapter 1. To those who fail to revere God as He is, He gives them over to sin. First He gives them over to sexual promiscuity, so that they abandon monogamous heterosexual marriage between a man and a woman, instead embracing fornication (and other things which are unspeakable for saints) as a valid and ethical form of sexual expression. He then gives them over to homosexuality, so that men and women abandon their natural sexual function and have intercourse with those of their own sex. If they still continue in their irreverence, He gives them over to a completely debased mind, so that they happily trade reasoning according to wisdom, logic, and evidence, for reasoning based on their immediate emotions and desires.</p>

<p>Anyone who knows anything of the past few decades of American history will see this Biblical principle plainly on display. The years surrounding the 1960s through the 1980s saw a great cultural shift in the attitude of the people towards sexuality; the Christian view of sex as intimacy which was only to be shared between a man and his wife was seen as unnecessarily narrow and restrictive, and thus the “sexual revolution” collectively normalized extramarital sex, pornography, masturbation, public nudity, divorce, and abortion. This was the first bifurcation point. From there, homosexuality began to gain traction, evolving from an underground and illegal practice to one which was publicly normalized, legalized, and even celebrated just a few decades later. This was the second bifurcation point. Since then, those of us in the Christian church have seen our society devolve into what can only be described as utter madness. It is now socially accepted that a man can become a woman if he “feels” like he is a woman, and by “feeling” this way, he may disregard and contradict the myriad of biological and psychological evidence that he is indeed <em>not</em> a man. Our culture classifies this as “sexual reidentification”, when it should classify it as “mental illness”. Other activities are up for consideration as “valid” forms of sexual expression, including pedophilia.</p>
:ET