I"=<p>As an athlete (or at least a hobbyist athlete), I can confirm that being physically injured to the extent that you can’t train is really disheartening. It’s an inevitable reality of pushing yourself in any physical domain that you will <em>eventually</em> get injured somehow. If you don’t get hurt every once in a while, chances are you’re missing out on a lot of performance. To some, the prospect of getting injured is a strong deterrence from engaging in any athletic activity at all. On the extreme end of the spectrum are those who say “with all of the wear and tear that exercise puts on the body, it’s not worth it to do any sort of hard training”.</p>

<p>Let us consider the end state of a human being. Every human being who has ever existed has died of trauma; trauma, in the technical sense that something or another “overwhelms” our bodies and causes them to cease to function. Dying in a car accident produces a different kind of trauma than dying of cancer or dying of old age (which is a state in which life itself is too much for an infrailed body to bear). At some point or another, every human being will experience bodily dysfunction, either as a function of trauma or disease, or as a slow decay into inability. Physical pain is an unavoidable part of the human experience, whether you train hard or not. Those who believe that they will be able to ride out their life injury-free by not performing any physical activity are sadly mistaken. They are deluded into believing that they are in control of all of the variables in their life, and grossly underestimate the need for the positive benefits of hard physical training in everyday life. Calamity, crisis, danger, or necessity, may manifest from the unknown at any moment. Ironically, regular physical training is the best way to hedge against these risks, and failure to prepare in this way broadens the number of possible ways in which an untrained person may become physically injured. Men who regularly deadlift are more likely (although not very likely at all) to hurt their back deadlifting in the gym, but are far <em>less</em> likely to hurt their back in the real world when their body is demanded to perform in a situation where back strength is a necessity.</p>

<p>That being said, like with <em>any</em> physical activity, there is a chance of incurring injury. A couple weeks ago, I made the stupid decision to wear my belt and go heavy on deadlifts. Wearing a belt while pulling heavy weight from the floor is almost invariably a bad idea, and is responsible for a lot of injuries like the one I subsequently incurred. A belt gives you the proprioceptive cue that you have properly set your back to pull, when in fact you haven’t. That’s exactly what happened to me: belt on, lazy brace, big pull, and a little snap crackle in my low back. It was a dumb decision, and it happens.</p>

<p>I’ve had a couple injuries throughout my athletic career. Though injuries can arise from a number of circumstances, in practice they are incurred from principally two: overuse and stupidity. Mine was an injury which arose from stupidity. I had no reason to be going for that kind of weight on the day that I did, and I paid for it with physical pain and a couple weeks of low intensity training. Most of my injuries are incurred due to overuse, when things in the body just tend to wear out after not being able to heal for weeks or months. Joints and connective tissue heal and adapt more slowly than muscle, so many lifters who hop into too much intense training too quickly can end up getting more beat up than necessary. Endurance athletes often make the mistake of training too often and ending up with similar kinds of injuries. Runners who don’t back off their mileage every once in a while can end up with a case of tendonitis, IT band syndrome, shin splints, or plantar fasciitis.</p>
:ET