I" <p>The book of Proverbs, chapter 31, is cited often for its exposition of the qualities of an excellent wife: a woman who is trustworthy, kind, strong, industrious, entrepreneurial, skilled, upright, a master of her household, and God-fearing. The sentiment of her character is summarized in the final verse of the chapter by her husband who proclaims, ‚ÄúMany daughters have done nobly, but you excel them all.‚Äù She is nothing short of remarkable; a prime example of the kind of woman a young man seeking to be married should look for.</p>

<p>Proverbs is a unique book in the Bible. It stands among two other Old Testament books, namely Ecclesiastes and Job, and one New Testament book, namely James, as an example of what Bible scholars call ‚Äúwisdom literature‚Äù. These four books have a different narrative structure than other books in the Bible, in that their aim is to glorify God by demonstrating to His creatures what is ‚Äúthe good and full life‚Äù and what would impede obtaining it. Proverbs is just what it says it is: a set of sayings, proverbs, and maxims intended to guide the reader to that end. With this in view it places its thesis at the beginning of the book, in the seventh verse of the first chapter, that ‚Äúthe fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge; fools despise wisdom and understanding‚Äù. From this, we are lead to deduce that the whole of a person‚Äôs behavior, and therefore the whole of their life, will be framed by the context of their reverence for God. From the fear of God we begin our schooling in wisdom, knowing nothing but Christ, as a redeemed and yet marred slate upon which the maxims of knowledge will be carved. Education in knowledge and wisdom is unnatural for us, since we are by nature compelled to act unwisely and selfishly because of sin; the unfit life we would ordinarily live if wisdom were not to intervene must be tempered out of us by some amount of willingness to change. It is from here where our pedantry begins, first from an older man in our life who sits us down and begins to teach us: ‚ÄúHear, my son, your father‚Äôs instruction, and do not forsake your mother‚Äôs teaching‚Äù. During our schooling we grow to learn the maxims of wisdom from Lady Wisdom, from King Solomon, from Agur the son of Jakeh, and finally in the last chapter of the book we learn ‚Äúthe words of King Lemuel, the oracle which his mother taught him‚Äù. It is as if we have grown up from being a boy, having developed both in stature and in wisdom, ready to begin life on our own. The car is packed, and our mother implores us with one final word of wisdom in the driveway before we depart: ‚ÄúWhat, O my son? Do not give your strength to women, or your ways to that which destroys kings‚Äù. She encourages us instead to be temperate, chaste, not given to sensuality, and to seek to be married to a woman of excellent character.</p>

<p>How should we interpret this advice?</p>

<p>Earlier in the book of Proverbs, we see that God has given different men different glory according to their stage in life. To old men He has given the glory of gray hair, that is, experience. Their whitening locks are an indication of an embroadened perspective on the whole of life and being. To young men He has given the glory of strength: a sharp mind which is diligent to formulate its aspirations, and a strong and capable body which is able to accomplish them. This is the design of God, that young men would be at the forefront of accomplishing His will and His purposes. Whether in business, industry, science, trade, ministry, or war, God has given young men strength of body and mind so that they may accomplish what He has intended on the Earth.</p>

<p>The ‚Äústrength‚Äù which is mentioned in ‚Äúdo not give your strength to women‚Äù is the Hebrew <em>chayil</em>, used in the Bible to mean ‚Äústrength‚Äù, ‚Äúmight‚Äù, ‚Äúefficiency‚Äù, ‚Äúwealth‚Äù, or ‚Äúarmy‚Äù. An overarching term may be ‚Äúresources‚Äù, or ‚Äúenergy‚Äù; that God-given strength which allows a young man to affect change in the world. The meaning, thus, is simple: do not give your time, your resources, or your energy to thinking about women. Do not use these things to pursue women. Do not let the prospect of romance with a woman impede you in accomplishing your God-given objectives. Seek a good woman to be your wife, but seek her as you would seek an opportunity, with open eyes and astute awareness, and not with a frantic or impatient sense of urgency. There is yet work for you to do, and you must attend to it as your first priority. When your assignment changes, and the nature of your work will require a woman to come alongside you as your partner to complete it, then God will bring her to your side.</p>

<p>It is not the woman herself who is the problem. God gives</p>
:ET