I"∑	<p>As we press on towards the fulfillment of the great commission, we must remember that our actions and our duties in this life are acts of war. Following Christ was a vote of political allegiance that each of us made upon our conversion, to obey the authority of King Jesus alone, at all cost. The Romans understood the early Church this way; ‚ÄúJesus is Lord‚Äù is a political statement, after all, because someone who is wholly devoted to God cannot ever be wholly devoted to a leader of this world. We render to Caesar what is Caesar‚Äôs, and no more; Caesar can keep our income taxes, but we belong to God. Our mission in this world is one of insurrection: to do away with the systems of the world through the faithful and peaceful preaching of the Gospel. The way we wage war is not by working from the top down through political might, but bottom up, as the Gospel is worked through the whole world like yeast through a lump of dough. Spiritual war is won, one soul at a time.</p>

<h1 id="new-opponents-new-tactics">New Opponents, New Tactics</h1>

<p>To the end of being effective soldiers, able to give an account for all that we believe, we need to take care to respond to the worldview issues of the times. We are no longer living in 2010 during the height of the new atheism, where our enemies cordially lined up on the other side of the battlefield from us and each brigade exchanged shots back and forth before each side retreated to their own respective camp. Debating atheists is easy, since the terms of warfare are well defined. Most atheists care about reason, argument, logic, and facts. In principle at least, they like syllogisms and revere sound exposition of truth. In the last years, and especially the last few months, ideas borrowed from social justice and critical race theory have crept their way into the church. These are worldviews, like atheism, which masquerade as mere amendments to Biblical justice in order to eventually undermine it, nullify it, and replace it with something new entirely: a new notion of original sin called ‚Äúprivilege‚Äù, a new church called ‚ÄúBLM‚Äù, a new eschaton outlined in the works of Karl Marx, and (most importantly) no notion of atonement for sinners. This is the ideology on the streets and in our churches. It has permeated our culture from top to bottom, and stands in active opposition to the Gospel at this very moment. Times have changed, as has the nature of the battle; our apologetics must change too.</p>
:ET