I"Ó<p>One of the peculiar facts about Man is that he considers himself to be a distinct entity from the Natural World that he inhabits. To Man, the Universe is a vast thing to explore, manipulate, utilize, and learn from. Such tasks are accomplished, as has been discussed previously, by the Observation of Natural Order and the inference of the Laws of Nature via the faculty of Reason. Man‚Äôs ability to set himself apart from the workings of the Universe, at least in his mind, allows himself to consider the meaning of such Observations with respect to the Laws of Nature. He is able to remove himself as an agent of ‚Äúmechanism‚Äù in whatever phenomenon he observes, save perhaps, the case when he is acting as the causal initiator of an experiment. He has no bearing on the mechanism of The Law of Gravitation acting on an apple in that he is not physical reason why the apple falls to the Earth; he merely let go of the apple, and it falls according to the Laws of Nature. Man, ever curious, is a scientist, even if he has no formal training in the sciences.</p>

<p>The tendency for Man regard phenomena as external to himself is a great philosophical advancement that has allowed him to make monumental leaps and bounds in all disciplines of thought. The danger in this tendency is when he turns the microscope on himself to observe his own behavior. It is a great and ever more popular fallacy of man to believe that the Laws which govern man‚Äôs behavior are constructed as a result of external factors only, and that the right manipulation of these factors could give rise a human being of any kind. The more Man sees himself as a sovereign individual observer of the Created Order, and not as part of that Created Order himself, the greater his tendency will be to believe that no Law exists which governs the way which he ought to be. This may manifest itself in two ways: 1) man will envision himself as the great arbitrator of his own glorious and limitless reality, with no Law to restrict his insatiable lusts, or 2) man will blame the external factors of his life for his behavior, as if he were a socially and evolutionarily conditioned lump of Play-Doh with no Law to govern his actions. Lawless Man is a brutal and poorly informed agent of fate, or he is perpetually a victim of the whims of ‚Äúother‚Äù, or he holds both prepositions in his head at once with white knuckles.</p>

<p>We know from Observation and Reason that all things within Nature have a Law, and that they have a Law because their creation by God transacted a Law to them. God created the World by means of Reason, and therefore the World acts in ways that can be comprehended by Reason. There is no evidence that Man is any different; even the mind of Man is governed by Law. To say that an apple is <em>governed</em> by the Law of Gravitation means that it <em>ought</em> to fall to the Earth when it is dropped, is analogous to saying that the Law of Man <em>governs</em> the Free and Reasoning mind of man by prescribing the way that it <em>ought</em> to behave. The Law of Man, also known as Morality or the Moral Law, is the description of the Law of the mind. Man is peculiar among the created order in that the Freedom of his Mind allows him to transgress the Law. Unlike an electron, or a bird, or a apple, Man is able freely use his will to act in disharmony with the rest of the Created Order by violating the Moral Law. No doubt it is a violation of the Moral Law to commit murder in cold blood, but such a violation has been committed many times in history.</p>
:ET