I"ç<p>There are two ways to be unethical. The first way is by doing the obvious: to willingly contradict what is known to be proper ethical conduct; the Law says ‚Äúdo not murder‚Äù, and yet you murder. To be sure, there is enough sin of this kind to go around. Yet, there is another more subtle way to be unethical: to value statements of moral duty in the wrong order; the Law says ‚Äúdo not murder‚Äù, yet, if an attacker threatens your family with death or torment or some other horrible thing, you have a responsibility to deter the threat, even if the circumstances require you to kill the attacker. When considering ethics and duty, we must not only consider what is properly right, but what is properly <em>more</em> right. As CS Lewis observes, practically every corruption, especially those of a political nature, may be explained by the elevation of some ethic above its proper valuation, whether it be patriotism, loyalty to family, or racial justice.</p>

<p>In our time, it has become fashionable to elevate the ethic of self-preservation above all others. In our culture, individuality, the self, and self-expression, are sacred things, worthy of the utmost protection from things which would threaten its sanctity. This inverted ethical system is marked, as many deviations from what is right are, by peculiar and particular language; taking time for ‚Äúmindfulness‚Äù and ‚Äúself care‚Äù, or abandoning people or situations which are ‚Äútoxic‚Äù, even at the expense of abdicating responsibility or leaving those in need behind. Under this ethic, these are sacrifices which are unavoidable to promote the greatest flourishing of the self.</p>

<p>Self care in this manner is a moral violation of the second kind.</p>

<p>In matters of behavior, we ought to look to Christ as our example. He is the archetype of perfect human behavior. Throughout His life we see Christ engaging in acts which would be considered ‚Äúself preservation‚Äù (sleeping, eating, fostering friendships, and taking time alone to be in prayer), but we can be sure that He was not engaging in these activities for selfish reasons, as the evangelists of the self preservation ethic do. We learn from Christ that we are not to concern ourselves with what we will eat or what we will wear, for God clothes even the flowers of the field and the birds of the air with splendor, and gives them everything they need up until the day that He decides to take their life from them; how much more will He do so for us! We are assured that Christ is our good shepherd, and will seek to bring us home when we are lost, and that by His power, no one will snatch us out of His hand. We know that to plan for our own flourishing in the future is to boast from pride, but that God orders our steps and numbers our days in order that we may live the life that is most pleasing to Him, and thus, most pleasing to us. Most importantly, we learn as well that the greatest love is held by the man who lays down his life for his friends, just as He abandoned His own self-preservation for us, and was nailed to a cross to die for our sins, that we might escape death and sin.</p>

<p>It is my estimation that, Biblically, we ought to preserve ourselves inasmuch as we accept the sustenance which is given to us by our Father when we need it, since we live as those who are willing to forego all preservation of self since we are compelled by our love for others. This is the kind of self-preservation which Christ engaged in, sustained by His Father for all manner of trials and generosity, living each day for those He loved, trusting that His Father would restore that which He depleted in giving to others, up until the day He emptied Himself completely.</p>
:ET