I"Á<p>One of the peculiar facts about Man is that he considers himself to be a distinct entity from the Natural World that he inhabits. To Man, the Universe is a vast thing to explore, manipulate, utilize, and learn from. Such tasks are accomplished, as has been discussed previously, by the Observation of Natural Order and the inference of the Laws of Nature via the faculty of Reason. Man‚Äôs ability to set himself apart from the workings of the Universe, at least in his mind, allows himself to consider the meaning of such Observations with respect to the Laws of Nature. He is able to remove himself as an agent of ‚Äúmechanism‚Äù in whatever phenomenon he observes, save perhaps, the case when he is acting as the causal initiator of an experiment. He has no bearing on the mechanism of The Law of Gravitation acting on an apple in that he is not physical reason why the apple falls to the Earth; he merely let go of the apple, and it falls according to the Laws of Nature. Man, ever curious, is a scientist, even if he has no formal training in the sciences.</p>

<p>The tendency for Man regard phenomena as external to himself is a great philosophical advancement that has allowed him to make monumental leaps and bounds in all disciplines of thought. The danger in this tendency is when he turns the microscope on himself to observe his own behavior. It is a great and ever more popular fallacy of man to believe that the Laws which govern man‚Äôs behavior are constructed as a result of external factors only, and that the right manipulation of these factors could give rise a human being of any kind. The more Man sees himself as a sovereign individual observer of the Created Order, and not as part of that Created Order himself, the greater his tendency will be to believe that no Law exists which governs the way which he ought to be. This may manifest itself in two ways: 1) man will envision himself as the great arbitrator of his own glorious and limitless reality, with no Law to restrict his insatiable lusts, or 2) man will blame the external factors of his life for his behavior, as if he were a socially and evolutionarily conditioned lump of Play-Doh with no Law to govern his actions. Lawless Man is a brutal and poorly informed agent of fate, or he is perpetually a victim of the whims of ‚Äúother‚Äù, or he holds both prepositions in his head at once with white knuckles.</p>

<p>We know from Observation and Reason that all things within Nature have a Law, and that they have a Law because their creation by God transacted a Law to them. God created the World by means of Reason, and therefore the Created Order acts in ways that can be comprehended by Reason. What evidence do we have that Man is any different? Man was created by God as a part of Nature, and as all things in Nature have a Law, so Man has a Law too. According to his Law he must eat to retain sustenance, walk and run on two feet as he is designed to do. Obviously, we can describe some of the Laws of man by their corresponding Laws of Nature; the fact that Man must eat to survive is a consequence of the Laws of Thermodynamics since the human body being a thermodynamic system, for example. Those who see Man as a distinct entity from the rest of Nature don‚Äôt deny this; hunger is enough evidence of physical limitation. Instead, they contend that the mind of Man is the part of him which is not governed by Law, because a Free and Reasoning thing cannot be constrained by anything, otherwise it would not be Free and Reasoning. This paradox is easily resolved. In the same way that an apple <em>governed</em> by the Law of Gravitation <em>ought</em> to fall to the Earth when it is dropped, so Law of Man <em>governs</em> the Free and Reasoning mind of man by prescribing the way that it <em>ought</em> to behave.</p>

<p>Man is peculiar among the created order in that the Freedom of his Mind allows him to transgress his Law. Unlike an electron, or a bird, or a apple, man is able use his will to act in disharmony with the rest of the Created Order by violating the prescription of Lawful behavior which he received when he was created. It is a Law that man must eat to survive, and it is also a Law that man should not murder. The first cannot be transgressed, but the second has been violated since the dawn of time.</p>
:ET