I"]"<p>As an athlete (or at least a hobbyist athlete), I can confirm that being physically injured to the extent that you can’t train is really disheartening. It’s an inevitable reality of pushing yourself in any physical domain that you will <em>eventually</em> get injured somehow. If you don’t get hurt every once in a while, chances are you’re missing out on a lot of performance. To some, the prospect of getting injured is a strong deterrence from engaging in any athletic activity at all. On the extreme end of the spectrum are those who say “with all of the wear and tear that exercise puts on the body, it’s not worth it to do any sort of hard training”.</p>

<p>Let us consider the end state of a human being. Every human being who has ever existed has died of trauma; trauma, in the technical sense that something or another “overwhelms” our bodies and causes them to cease to function. Dying in a car accident produces a different kind of trauma than dying of cancer or dying of old age (which is a state in which life itself is too much for an infrailed body to bear). At some point or another, every human being will experience bodily dysfunction, either as a function of trauma or disease, or as a slow decay into inability. Physical pain is an unavoidable part of the human experience, whether you train hard or not. Those who believe that they will be able to ride out their life injury-free by not performing any physical activity are sadly mistaken. They are deluded into believing that they are in control of all of the variables in their life, and grossly underestimate the need for the positive benefits of hard physical training in everyday life. Calamity, crisis, danger, or necessity, may manifest from the unknown at any moment. Ironically, regular physical training is the best way to hedge against these risks, and failure to prepare in this way broadens the number of possible ways in which an untrained person may become physically injured. Men who regularly deadlift are more likely (although not very likely at all) to hurt their back deadlifting in the gym, but are far <em>less</em> likely to hurt their back in the real world when their body is demanded to perform in a situation where back strength is a necessity.</p>

<p>That being said, like with <em>any</em> physical activity, there is a chance of incurring injury. A couple weeks ago, I made the stupid decision to wear my belt and go heavy on deadlifts. Wearing a belt while pulling heavy weight from the floor is almost invariably a bad idea, and is responsible for a lot of injuries like the one I subsequently incurred. A belt gives you the proprioceptive cue that you have properly set your back to pull, when in fact you haven’t. That’s exactly what happened to me: belt on, lazy brace, big pull, and a little snap crackle in my low back. It was a dumb decision, and it happens.</p>

<p>I’ve had a couple injuries throughout my athletic career. Though injuries can arise from a number of circumstances, in practice they are incurred from principally two: overuse and stupidity. Tweaking my back was an injury which arose from stupidity; I had no reason to be going for that kind of weight on the day that I did, and I paid for it with physical pain and a couple weeks of low intensity training. Most of my other injuries were incurred due to overuse, when things in the body just tend to wear out after not being able to heal for weeks or months. Joints and connective tissue heal and adapt more slowly than muscle, so lifters have to manage stress across different structures of the body accordingly. Olympic weightlifters (like me) often do well to back off on the snatch and the clean and jerk every so often and just focus on building muscle or getting more conditioned, for this reason. Endurance athletes often make the mistake of training too often and ending up with similar kinds of injuries. Runners who don’t back off their mileage every once in a while can end up with a case of tendonitis, IT band syndrome, shin splints, or plantar fasciitis.</p>

<p>The advice of the Conventional Wisdom with respect to injuries is almost ubiquitously to let the injury rest until it heals. In my experience, this just doesn’t work. For the immediate duration of time after a traumatic injury, the injured structure should be immediately stabilized and immobilized; a broken leg needs to be reset and splinted, a torn muscle belly needs to stop being worked, and so on. For tears, sprains, strains, and the like, ice is almost never a good idea, since cold temperature suppresses the body’s initial inflammation reaction to the trauma, and slows the healing process. Overuse injuries, like tendonitis, are often even more stubborn to heal under the bed rest protocol, since the body can’t take advantage of an initial inflammation surge to kickstart the healing process.</p>

<p>As soon as light movement can begin after the injury has been identified, it should. For most injuries, there will be a movement which serves to get blood flow to the affected region, as well as stimulate a little bit of inflammation to keep the healing process going. An example of this is the Starr Rehab Protocol, a healing methodology developed by Olympic weightlifter Bill Starr to heal muscle belly tears. The protocol involves doing high-repetition (20-30 reps per set) exercises, like squats or deadlifts, to bring blood flow and immunological stimulation to the affected area, in essence “telling” the body to repair the affected tissue. Mark Rippetoe of Starting Strength developed a similar protocol with high repetition chin ups to heal biceps tendonitis. I developed a case of tendonitis in the front of my left hip when I switched legs in the split jerk a little over a year ago, and I was able to heal it by lying on my back and contracting the affected area against a band and holding it isometrically for 20-30 seconds at a time. Variations in training lifts can also help with accommodating and healing an injury. An athlete with a pec tear might not be able to bench press, but maybe they can still press overhead. Likewise, an athlete with a knee injury might not be able to squat, but perhaps they can still get some training stimulus on their quads and hamstrings by deadlifting instead.</p>

<p>The job of an athlete experiencing an injury is to remain calm and rational, in order to make the best decision about how to proceed with the healing process. It’s easy to panic and become emotional (“I’ll never be able to train again!”). Those moments have their place in the recovery process. Acknowledge your concern, get a little emotional, go home, have a beer, and get some sleep. Tell yourself you’ll heal up quickly, and you’ll be back to regular training soon in no time. The key to convincing yourself of this is to make a plan to recover and heal. Identify the exercises which seem to aggravate the injury, and which ones seem to facilitate the healing process, and set some reasonable training frequencies and volumes for those exercises.</p>

<p>Back injuries are especially susceptible to being milked by people. A lot of people with back pain or back injuries will avoid moving in ways which might be advantageous to helping their situation. “I’ve got a bad back”; no, you have a human back, and you experience back pain just like the rest of the population. The scientific literature has finally caught up to what lifters have understood for hundreds of years: the bed rest protocol does not heal these kinds of injuries. You have to <em>make</em> them heal. For my back tweak, I could hardly squat my second warmup without pain, but I could do back extensions, light deadlifts, and even snatches and cleans with no problems at all. I made it my prerogative to do 3 sets of 10 back extensions every training session as my first exercise, to get good muscle activation and blood flow to the region. Then, I focused on what I could do: light deadlifts on a simple linear progression, snatches and cleans and jerks depending on how I was feeling, and a bit more pressing volume to boost my morale. Instead of seeing the injury as something which impeded my training, I chose to see it as an opportunity to learn about back injuries, and to focus on getting stronger at some weaknesses I had been neglecting for a while.</p>

<p>Training, as a process, is a remarkably simple and logical progression, but it is not always a predictable sequence of events. A mature athlete plays the long game by considering each day in the context of the next months and years of progress. Future gains in performance and overall well-being are worthy aspirations to make sacrifices in immediate perceived training success. Do your future self a favor.</p>
:ET