I"s<p>Crisis affronts our minds with the striking brittleness of our lives. In a matter of weeks, life as we knew it has almost vanished for fear of infectious disease. Thousands have succumbed to infection, schools have been closed, events have canceled, businesses are hanging on by a thread. Amid the uncertainty of the future extent of these infections, and the certainty of the three years of economic progress which have been essentially reversed in a matter of weeks, it is the recommendation of government officials in many nations for citizens to huddle in their homes like cowering sheep until the wave of contagion passes. Whether this is actually an emergency with risk as grand an dire as the narrative proclaims, or whether this is all a great social experiment, it is certainly a great enlightenment of human behavior. Where is the dissenting American spirit in the populace? Why are we so amiable to comply? That’s a topic for another time, I suppose.</p>

<p>In times of calamity I find myself pondering not how things have gone so horribly wrong, but how things seemed to remain stable for the great duration of serenity leading up to the calamity. The last time that infectious disease brought about a comparable amount of havoc to this one was in 1918 with the spread of the Spanish Flu over a century ago. Even then, the epidemiological effect now is not nearly what it was in that time. It is not possible for human life to be a steady traversal of a harmonious Rousseauian paradise. Infectious disease, accident, catastrophe, war, death, and other fruit of fallenness are always present at every moment in latent form, sometimes kept at bay by human ingenuity, and sometimes kept at bay by simple luck. At the limits of human ingenuity and the exhaustion of luck, we experience the invocation of Stein’s Law: “if something cannot go on forever, it will stop”.</p>

<p>We would be tempted to believe that the interference of calamity in daily life can be mitigated by the acquisition of knowledge, intelligence, or power. Knowledge, to plan for what has already happened and to predict what will happen, intelligence, to provide ingenuity regarding such knowledge, and power, to implement the generated ingenuity.</p>

<p>The Teacher, in the book of Ecclesiastes, was a man who had devoted his entire life to the acquisition of knowledge, power, and wisdom. Likely this man was King of Israel, and authorship is often attributed to King Solomon himself on account of his life. Explicit authorship is excluded from the text, on purpose; the book contains words which have been spoken by knowledgeable and wise men for the entire history of thought. “All is vanity” may be more aptly translated “all is as a vapor”; all is transient, lacking in substance and steadfastness. The entire book drives this point like a sledge.</p>

<p>Just as all things in life are subject to transience, life itself holds within it a great fragility. Edwards preached his infamous <em>Sinners</em> to convey the striking peril of eternal judgement which awaits men at every moment of their lives, as if they were spiders hanging from a brittle strand of web above a roaring campfire. God, not out of necessity, nor out of obligation to some covenant with mankind, retains man’s life and blesses him with goodness all his days. God is kind, and profoundly kind, to even mankind whom He deems His mortal enemies. At any moment He could, and sometimes does, remove His steady providence for their well-being, at least in part, by befalling them with the tragedy they are due. In those moments, our strength fails, our pride is wounded, our spirit is shaken, and our body is broken.</p>
:ET